the grand vision that I have for IPL de
is towards a decentralized programming
environment and what I mean by
programming environment is it's in the
sense of Unix
some people talk about the core of the
UNIX philosophy being having composable
utilities that you can put together to
do a big job but I think the real core
the content of the UNIX philosophy is
more succinctly captured in this quote
that a file is a sequence of bytes the
reason programs weren't composable
before this is because people didn't use
the same conventions for how to actually
put bytes onto the disk and so they
couldn't have programs coexisting
because there was no environment in
which they could exchange data without
clobbering each other so the file system
is really sort of the core of what all
of the rest of the UNIX philosophy is
built on top of and now what we really
want to do is move towards computing
with DAGs instead of computing with
sequences of bytes we're working with
structured data and so we need to
revisit or at least I think it's
profitable to revisit a lot of the
higher order kinds of computational
ideas that that go on top of the file
system some of the things that this kind
of structured data storage is DAGs can
enable when we have data that can be
encoded in these structured ways we can
do improve deduplication of common sub
elements and because we know where to
chunk it we aren't just chunking by
megabyte or something we can prefetch
pieces that are like the index of a
video file that think things that we
know are going to need in order to be
able to efficiently access the rest of
it we can do those efficient accesses of
different semantic pieces different
chunks of a file
and we can do lazy access patterns where
we can load a data structure and have it
appear transparently as though we're in
memory but in fact when we follow
pointers where we're following hash
links on the back end some of the use
cases for these kinds of computational
filters that you might want to put on
top of a an IP LD dag and say now this
is a new dag but it's not an actual
thing an IP FS it's a computational
transform of some previous thing we
might want to do for example
decompression we might want to do
transparent decryption
conversion between different formats
different sorts of views slices lenses
looking up things in an index so you can
sort of give an identifier to do an
expression that looks up a key and a key
value block or even more advanced kinds
of queries like with relational algebra
or even generalized sort of data
analyses where I want to be able to
reproduce the data analysis and instead
of putting the results of the analysis
on IP FS and saying trust me I did this
analysis on this data
I put the actual code on there and you
answer you can you can recompute it
yourself or you can get it from a cache
etcetera but the things we desire from
this kind of thing we want a pure
deterministic reproducible semantics
because we want to be able to cache that
we want some kind of a query planner to
be able to say oh this sub expression
has been computed before by someone you
trust or it's been computed in a
verifiable way or you computed it
yourself yesterday and I have it on disk
I'll fetch it from there or if it's
something that's really fast to compute
and it's gonna be faster than fetching
it or finding someone in the network
who's already done it then I'll do it
myself those sorts of decisions you want
to be able to leave up to optimization
which means that you need to be
confident in the deterministic
reproducible output of your
computational elements and we're gonna
need an elegant story for upgrades and
versioning not just so data which is
which is relatively easy to handle in a
git style way but also of the schemas
the ways that we represent the data and
then even even more fundamental than
that we might introduce new kinds of
questions that you can ask about data to
go along with those new representations
and so there's some open research
problems about how to best represent
those kinds of things and of course we
want the core of this to be easy to
implement so we want to build as many of
the features of this as possible on top
of other features so that at the bottom
that's a very very simple the untyped
lambda calculus is the ultimate version
of this we're trying to get as close to
that as we can and wide platform support
leveraging webassembly
so I'm gonna run through in my remaining
30 seconds a whole bunch of different
steps on the way to a decentralized
programming environment so there's data
definition a static language of value
literals sort of JSON style
serialization lenses
actual formats that you can represent
values in these schemas and all sorts of
different ways with depending on what
your application needs of selectors or
like maps and filters queries where you
can bind variables to do recursion an
object model for exposing those kinds of
queries as api's giving them human
readable names and such database style
indices then beyond immutable data see
Rd T's capabilities actors and
ultimately will get you know
unrestricted computation verifiably in
the in the in this decentralized
environment out of time thank you very
much
[Applause]